edited ST goals (#38)
fhdsl/Choosing_Genomics_Tools: 10c-spatial-transcriptomics.Rmd

2.  **Uncover spatially regulated biological processes:** With ST data, there comes the ability to detect genes or gene pathways that are expressed in specific areas within tissues (i.e., spatially-restricted expression). Detecting genes with spatially-restricted expression is key to achieve further understanding of specific biological processes, such as tissue gradients, cell differentiation, or signaling pathways. For example, cancer researchers are now able to study signaling pathways restricted to the tumor-stroma interface [@hunter2021spatially], which could lead to the discovery of mechanisms representing cancer vulnerabilities resulting from interactions between the tumor and stroma cells.

> 3.  **Investigate cell-cell interactions:** From basic to applied tissue biology research, the study of cell-cell interactions is of high interest, especially the interactions that occur via ligand-receptor pairs. The construction of comprehensive databases of ligand-receptor interactions has been possible due the large amounts of single-cell data sets produced by researchers. A major contribution of ST to the study of tissue biology is the addition of the spatial context to previously identified ligand-receptor interactions. Because single-cell RNA-seq requires physical separation of cells, current ligand-receptor databases represent hypotheses which ST can help to address by using models of spatial co-localization, enabling in-situ examination of cell-cell interactions and communication [@REFERENCES].

Reviewer: This looks like something you are probably going to come back to? Or do you need me to try to help find something?

Author: I have pretty much finished with the "goals" section. I re-wrote most of it. Although I forgot to include the references in the 3rd item. Please, @cansavvy , can you cite these and add to the bibliography file?

```
@article{raredon2023comprehensive,
  title={Comprehensive visualization of cell--cell interactions in single-cell and spatial transcriptomics with NICHES},
  author={Raredon, Micha Sam Brickman and Yang, Junchen and Kothapalli, Neeharika and Lewis, Wesley and Kaminski, Naftali and Niklason, Laura E and Kluger, Yuval},
  journal={Bioinformatics},
  volume={39},
  number={1},
  pages={btac775},
  year={2023},
  publisher={Oxford University Press}
}

@article{wang2023promising,
  title={The Promising Application of Cell-cell Interaction Analysis in Cancer From Single-cell and Spatial Transcriptomics},
  author={Wang, Xinyi and Almet, Axel A and Nie, Qing},
  booktitle={Seminars in Cancer Biology},
  year={2023},
  organization={Elsevier}
}
```

Reviewer: Yes!! Thanks so much! I will do that.

> 3.  **Investigate cell-cell interactions:** From basic to applied tissue biology research, the study of cell-cell interactions is of high interest, especially the interactions that occur via ligand-receptor pairs. The construction of comprehensive databases of ligand-receptor interactions has been possible due the large amounts of single-cell data sets produced by researchers. A major contribution of ST to the study of tissue biology is the addition of the spatial context to previously identified ligand-receptor interactions. Because single-cell RNA-seq requires physical separation of cells, current ligand-receptor databases represent hypotheses which ST can help to address by using models of spatial co-localization, enabling in-situ examination of cell-cell interactions and communication [@REFERENCES].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  **Investigate cell-cell interactions:** From basic to applied tissue biology research, the study of cell-cell interactions is of high interest, especially the interactions that occur via ligand-receptor pairs. The construction of comprehensive databases of ligand-receptor interactions has been possible due the large amounts of single-cell data sets produced by researchers. A major contribution of ST to the study of tissue biology is the addition of the spatial context to previously identified ligand-receptor interactions. Because single-cell RNA-seq requires physical separation of cells, current ligand-receptor databases represent hypotheses which ST can help to address by using models of spatial co-localization, enabling in-situ examination of cell-cell interactions and communication [@raredon2023comprehensive; wang2023promising].
```

2.  **Spatially Resolved Capture of RNA Molecules:** In this step, the tissue sample is typically placed on a solid substrate, such as a glass slide or a microarray chip. One common approach is to use spatially barcoded arrays or grids, where each region corresponds to a specific spatial location. Alternatively, techniques like in situ sequencing or imaging-based methods can be used. These approaches allow the capture of RNA molecules while retaining spatial information.

3.  **RNA Extraction and Amplification:** After spatial capture, the captured RNA molecules need to be extracted and amplified to generate sufficient material for downstream analysis. This step involves lysing the cells, extracting the RNA, and performing reverse transcription to convert RNA into complementary DNA (cDNA). Amplification methods such as PCR or in vitro transcription (IVT) are employed to generate amplified cDNA libraries.

4.  **Library Preparation:** The amplified cDNA libraries are then prepared for sequencing. This involves adding specific sequencing adapters and barcodes to each library, which enable sample multiplexing and identification during sequencing.

> 5.  **Sequencing:** The prepared libraries are subjected to high-throughput sequencing using platforms like Illumina or Ion Torrent. The choice of sequencing platform depends on the desired read length, throughput, and cost considerations.

Reviewer: Oh, just so you know, in markdown generally, if you put `1.` for a list, it will auto-populate the correct number upon rendering.

Author: Ok, thank you!

-   **Limited Accessibility of Techniques:** Some spatial transcriptomic techniques may have limited availability, accessibility, or may require specialized equipment or expertise. This can restrict their widespread use and accessibility to researchers who do not have access to the necessary resources or infrastructure.

## Tools for spatial transcriptomics

### Data processing:

#### Space Ranger:

-   **Pros:** spaceranger is a software package developed by 10x Genomics specifically for processing and analyzing spatial transcriptomic data generated by their platform. It provides a streamlined workflow for processing raw data, including image processing, spot calling, and counting transcripts. spaceranger offers integration with the Seurat R package, enabling downstream analysis using Seurat's extensive tools.
-   **Cons:** spaceranger is optimized for 10x Genomics data and may have limited compatibility with other spatial transcriptomic platforms. It may not offer the same level of flexibility as more general-purpose tools like Seurat or Scanpy.

> #### GeomxTools

Reviewer: Excellent! Thank you for adding these other tools we should know about! Super helpful!

Author: Happy to help @cansavvy !
I still need to add description of pros/cons of these, as well as editing other sections of the document.
Please, let me know if you would like to update as it is now, or if you prefer that I finish the edits in all the document and make the next pull request then.

Reviewer: Whatever way you are more comfortable with is fine with me!
